= Why git_remote_tag?

git_remote_tag is a simple command-line tool that makes it very easy to manipulate
tages published in shared repositories.

It achieves this goal by sticking to a few principles:
- keep grb's commands extremely regular (they all look alike)
- support aliases for commands
- print all commands it runs on your behalf in red, so you eventually learn them

Another nice thing about git_remote_tag is that it can simply explain a command 
(print out all the corresponding git commands) instead of running them on your behalf.

Note: git_remote_tag assumes that the local and remote tages have the
same name. Multiple remote repositories (or origins) are supported.


= Installation

  sudo gem install git_remote_tag --include-dependencies

If you have an old version of Rubygems, you may have to manually install the "colored" gem.
  sudo gem install colored

If you're on Windows, you must also install "win32console" manually (before or after installing git_remote_tag doesn't matter).
  gem install win32console colored


See the "Bleeding edge and development" section the end of this document for more details about fiddling with the source of git_remote_tag or running it with Ruby 1.9 (yes, it works).

= Usage

Notes: 
- parts between brackets are optional
- When 'origin_server' is not specified, the name 'origin' is assumed.

Available commands (with aliases):


=== Help

  $ grb [-h|help]    #=> Displays help

=== create (alias: new)

Create a new local tag as well as a corresponding remote tag based on the
tag you currently have checked out. 
Track the new remote tag. Checkout the new tag.

  $ grb create tag_name [origin_server]


=== publish (aliases: remotize, share)

Publish an existing local tag to the remote server.
Set up the local tag to track the new remote tag.

  $ grb publish tag_name [origin_server]


=== delete (aliases: destroy, kill, remove, rm)

Delete the remote tag then delete the local tag.
The local tag is not deleted if there are pending changes.

  $ grb delete tag_name [origin_server]


=== track (aliases: follow grab fetch)

Track an existing remote tag locally and checkout the tag.

  $ grb track tag_name [origin_server]


=== rename (aliases: rn mv move)

Rename a remote tag and its local tracking tag.
The tag you want to rename must be checked out.

  # On tag to be renamed
  $ grb rename new_tag_name [origin_server]


=== explain

All commands can be prepended by the word 'explain'.  Instead of executing the
command, git_remote_tag will simply output the list of commands you need to
run to accomplish that goal.
Examples: 

  $ grb explain create
  git_remote_tag version 0.3.0
  
  List of operations to do to create a new remote tag and track it locally:
  
  git push origin master:refs/heads/tag_to_create
  git fetch origin
  git tag --track tag_to_create origin/tag_to_create
  git checkout tag_to_create

Explain your specific case:

  $ grb explain create my_tag github
  git_remote_tag version 0.3.0
  
  List of operations to do to create a new remote tag and track it locally:
  
  git push github master:refs/heads/my_tag
  git fetch github
  git tag --track my_tag github/my_tag
  git checkout my_tag

This, of course, works for each of the grb commands.

= More on git_remote_tag

- Documentation: http://grb.rubyforge.org
- News:          http://programblings.com/category/git/git_remote_tag/
- Bug tracker:   http://git-remote-tag.lighthouseapp.com/projects/19198-git_remote_tag/overview
- Code:          http://github.com/webmat/git_remote_tag
- Mailing list:  http://groups.google.com/group/git_remote_tag


== History

git_remote_tag in its current form was inspired by a script created by Carl Mercier and made public on his blog: {No nonsense GIT, part 1: git-remote-tag}[http://blog.carlmercier.com/2008/01/25/no-nonsense-git-part-1-git-remote-tag/]


== Contributors

- Mathieu Martin  webmat@gmail.com
- Caio Chassot    dev@caiochassot.com
- Axelson         github.com/axelson
- Carl Mercier    github.com/cmer


== Legalese

git_remote_tag is licensed under the MIT License. See the file LICENSE for details.

== Bleeding edge and development

(Notice the keyword "bleeding")

=== Getting the bleeding edge

Installing from GitHub
  sudo gem install webmat-git_remote_tag --source=http://gems.github.com

Note that the only stable version of the gem you should trust is the one from Rubyforge. The GitHub gem is a development gem. The GitHub gem WILL be rebuilt with the same version number, and other horrible things like that. If you use the GitHub version of git_remote_tag, children will die! You've been warned.

Cloning the repo and installing from your copy
  git clone git://github.com/webmat/git_remote_tag.git
  rake install

=== Testing dependencies

Note that git_remote_tag uses a few more gems for tests. Running any rake task will try to load them due to the way Rake::TestTask works.

  sudo gem install thoughtbot-shoulda --source http://gems.github.com
  sudo gem install mocha

An attempt is made to require 2 more optional gems: redgreen and ruby-debug. If they're not present, only a whiny message will be displayed.

=== Supported platforms

git_remote_tag has been tested with the following configurations:

- OS X Leopard / Ruby 1.8.6 / Git 1.5.4.3 and 1.6.0.2
- OS X Leopard / Ruby 1.9.1 / Git 1.5.4.3 and 1.6.0.2
- Ubuntu Intrepid Ibex / Ruby 1.8.7 / Git 1.5.6.3
- Windows XP / Ruby 1.8.6 / Git 1.6.0.2 (the msys version)

Let me know if you have problems running git_remote_tag with your platform.

To run the test suite using Ruby 1.9, simply set the RUBY environment variable to point to your 1.9 interpreter and then run the 1.9 version of Rake. In my case, everything 1.9 is suffixed with 1.9:

  $ RUBY=ruby1.9 rake1.9 test

Or on Windows (Ruby 1.9 not tested on Windows)

  > set RUBY=ruby1.9
  > rake1.9 test
